README.md, before:

Heroku buildpack: Node.js with grunt support
============================================

Supported Grunt versions: 0.3 and 0.4.
See the Grunt [migration guide](https://github.com/gruntjs/grunt/wiki/Upgrading-from-0.3-to-0.4) if you are upgrading from 0.3.

This is a fork of [Heroku's official Node.js buildpack](https://github.com/heroku/heroku-buildpack-nodejs) with added [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) support.
Using this buildpack you do not need to commit the results of your Grunt tasks (e.g. minification and concatination of files), keeping your repository clean.

After all the default Node.js and npm build tasks have finished, the buildpack checks if a Gruntfile (`Gruntfile.js`, `Gruntfile.coffee`or `grunt.js`) exists and executes the `heroku` task by running `grunt heroku`. For details about grunt and how to define tasks, check out the [offical documentation](http://gruntjs.com/getting-started). You must add grunt to the npm dependencies in your `package.json` file.
If no Gruntfile exists, the buildpacks simply skips the grunt step and executes like the standard Node.js buildpack.


How it Works
------------

Here's an overview of what this buildpack does:

- Uses the [semver.io](https://semver.io) webservice to find the latest version of node that satisfies the [engines.node semver range](https://npmjs.org/doc/json.html#engines) in your package.json.
- Allows any recent version of node to be used, including [pre-release versions](https://semver.io/node.json).
- Uses an [S3 caching proxy](https://github.com/heroku/s3pository#readme) of nodejs.org for faster downloads of the node binary.
- Discourages use of dangerous semver ranges like `*` and `>0.10`.
- Uses the version of `npm` that comes bundled with `node`.
- Puts `node` and `npm` on the `PATH` so they can be executed with [heroku run](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/one-off-dynos#an-example-one-off-dyno).
- Caches the `node_modules` directory across builds for fast deploys.
- Doesn't use the cache if `node_modules` is checked into version control.
- Runs `npm rebuild` if `node_modules` is checked into version control.
- Always runs `npm install` to ensure [npm script hooks](https://npmjs.org/doc/misc/npm-scripts.html) are executed.
- Always runs `npm prune` after restoring cached modules to ensure cleanup of unused dependencies.
- Runs `grunt` if a Gruntfile (`Gruntfile.js`, `Gruntfile.coffee`or `grunt.js`) is found.

For more technical details, see the [heavily-commented compile script](https://github.com/mbuchetics/heroku-buildpack-nodejs-grunt/blob/master/bin/compile).

Usage
-----

Create a new app with this buildpack:

    heroku create myapp --buildpack https://github.com/mbuchetics/heroku-buildpack-nodejs-grunt.git

Or add this buildpack to your current app:

    heroku config:add BUILDPACK_URL=https://github.com/mbuchetics/heroku-buildpack-nodejs-grunt.git

Set the `NODE_ENV` environment variable (e.g. `development` or `production`):

    heroku config:set NODE_ENV=production

Create your Node.js app and add a Gruntfile named  `Gruntfile.js` (or `Gruntfile.coffee` if you want to use CoffeeScript, or `grunt.js` if you are using Grunt 0.3) with a `heroku` task:

    grunt.registerTask('heroku:development', 'clean less mincss');
    
or

    grunt.registerTask('heroku:production', 'clean less mincss uglify');

Don't forget to add grunt to your dependencies in `package.json`. If your grunt tasks depend on other pre-defined tasks make sure to add these dependencies as well:

    "dependencies": {
        ...
        "grunt": "*",
        "grunt-contrib": "*",
        "less": "*"
    }

Push to heroku

    git push heroku master
    ...
    -----> Heroku receiving push
    -----> Fetching custom buildpack... done
    -----> Node.js app detected
    -----> Resolving engine versions
           Using Node.js version: 0.8.2
           Using npm version: 1.1.41
    -----> Fetching Node.js binaries
    -----> Vendoring node into slug
    -----> Installing dependencies with npm
           ...
           Dependencies installed
    -----> Building runtime environment
    -----> Found gruntfile, running grunt heroku task
    Running "heroku" task
    ...
    -----> Discovering process types

Debugging
---------

npm can be run with a verbose flag to help debugging if something fails when installing the dependencies. 

* if the `VERBOSE` environment variable is set, npm is always run with verbose logging.
* if `BUILDPACK_RETRY_VERBOSE` is set, npm is relaunched in verbose mode if npm failed.

Thanks to [mackwic](https://github.com/mackwic) for these extensions.

Further Information
-------------------

For more information about using Node.js and buildpacks on Heroku, see these Dev Center articles:

- [Heroku Node.js Support](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/nodejs-support)
- [Getting Started with Node.js on Heroku](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/nodejs)
- [Buildpacks](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/buildpacks)
- [Buildpack API](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/buildpack-api)
- [Grunt: a task-based command line build tool for JavaScript projects](http://gruntjs.com/)

Commit message:

Added bower and gulp support

README.md, after:

Heroku buildpack: Node.js with grunt, gulp, and bower support
=============================================================

Supported Grunt versions: 0.3 and 0.4.
See the Grunt [migration guide](https://github.com/gruntjs/grunt/wiki/Upgrading-from-0.3-to-0.4) if you are upgrading from 0.3.

This is a fork of [Heroku's official Node.js buildpack](https://github.com/heroku/heroku-buildpack-nodejs) with added [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) support.
Using this buildpack you do not need to commit the results of your Grunt and/or Gulp tasks (e.g. minification and concatenation of files) or your bower components, keeping your repository clean.

After all the default Node.js and npm build tasks have finished, the buildpack checks if a Gruntfile (`Gruntfile.js`, `Gruntfile.coffee`or `grunt.js`) exists and executes the `heroku` task by running `grunt heroku`. For details about grunt and how to define tasks, check out the [offical documentation](http://gruntjs.com/getting-started). You must add grunt to the npm dependencies in your `package.json` file.
If no Gruntfile exists, the buildpacks simply skips the grunt step and executes like the standard Node.js buildpack.


How it Works
------------

Here's an overview of what this buildpack does:

- Uses the [semver.io](https://semver.io) webservice to find the latest version of node that satisfies the [engines.node semver range](https://npmjs.org/doc/json.html#engines) in your package.json.
- Allows any recent version of node to be used, including [pre-release versions](https://semver.io/node.json).
- Uses an [S3 caching proxy](https://github.com/heroku/s3pository#readme) of nodejs.org for faster downloads of the node binary.
- Discourages use of dangerous semver ranges like `*` and `>0.10`.
- Uses the version of `npm` that comes bundled with `node`.
- Puts `node` and `npm` on the `PATH` so they can be executed with [heroku run](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/one-off-dynos#an-example-one-off-dyno).
- Caches the `node_modules` directory across builds for fast deploys.
- Doesn't use the cache if `node_modules` is checked into version control.
- Runs `npm rebuild` if `node_modules` is checked into version control.
- Always runs `npm install` to ensure [npm script hooks](https://npmjs.org/doc/misc/npm-scripts.html) are executed.
- Always runs `npm prune` after restoring cached modules to ensure cleanup of unused dependencies.
- Runs `grunt` if a Gruntfile (`Gruntfile.js`, `Gruntfile.coffee`or `grunt.js`) is found.

For more technical details, see the [heavily-commented compile script](https://github.com/mbuchetics/heroku-buildpack-nodejs-grunt/blob/master/bin/compile).

Usage
-----

Create a new app with this buildpack:

    heroku create myapp --buildpack https://github.com/mbuchetics/heroku-buildpack-nodejs-grunt.git

Or add this buildpack to your current app:

    heroku config:add BUILDPACK_URL=https://github.com/mbuchetics/heroku-buildpack-nodejs-grunt.git

Set the `NODE_ENV` environment variable (e.g. `development` or `production`):

    heroku config:set NODE_ENV=production

Create your Node.js app and add a Gruntfile named  `Gruntfile.js` (or `Gruntfile.coffee` if you want to use CoffeeScript, or `grunt.js` if you are using Grunt 0.3) with a `heroku` task:

    grunt.registerTask('heroku:development', 'clean less mincss');

or

    grunt.registerTask('heroku:production', 'clean less mincss uglify');

Don't forget to add grunt to your dependencies in `package.json`. If your grunt tasks depend on other pre-defined tasks make sure to add these dependencies as well:

    "dependencies": {
        ...
        "grunt": "*",
        "grunt-contrib": "*",
        "less": "*"
    }

Push to heroku

    git push heroku master
    ...
    -----> Heroku receiving push
    -----> Fetching custom buildpack... done
    -----> Node.js app detected
    -----> Resolving engine versions
           Using Node.js version: 0.8.2
           Using npm version: 1.1.41
    -----> Fetching Node.js binaries
    -----> Vendoring node into slug
    -----> Installing dependencies with npm
           ...
           Dependencies installed
    -----> Building runtime environment
    -----> Found gruntfile, running grunt heroku task
    Running "heroku" task
    ...
    -----> Discovering process types

Debugging
---------

npm can be run with a verbose flag to help debugging if something fails when installing the dependencies.

* if the `VERBOSE` environment variable is set, npm is always run with verbose logging.
* if `BUILDPACK_RETRY_VERBOSE` is set, npm is relaunched in verbose mode if npm failed.

Thanks to [mackwic](https://github.com/mackwic) for these extensions.

Further Information
-------------------

For more information about using Node.js and buildpacks on Heroku, see these Dev Center articles:

- [Heroku Node.js Support](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/nodejs-support)
- [Getting Started with Node.js on Heroku](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/nodejs)
- [Buildpacks](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/buildpacks)
- [Buildpack API](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/buildpack-api)
- [Grunt: a task-based command line build tool for JavaScript projects](http://gruntjs.com/)
